{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Title: Minifigure\
Let me tell you a story. Are you ready? Make sure your belt buckles are tight, and your zipper is down. You just might piss yourself.\
A student subscribes to the model of the University. The University says that if you study hard, get a good GPA, pursue extracurriculars, then you will succeed in getting a nice job. The graduate subscribes to the model of the job - if you work hard, you will earn money, more vacation, and a promotion. The employee subscribes to the model of retirement, once you earn enough money, work hard enough, you can relax. And so he relaxes. But what model is he meant to subscribe to now? Who is to tell him how to relax? And we wonder why old people have so much free time.\
That was more broad, but it doesn't have to be, let's zoom in a bit. There is a failing marriage, a man and a woman. The man is a deadbeat husband, but in the past, he was good. The wife, though having lost her attraction to him, is sticking around. She subscribes to the model that if she waits long enough, then he is sure to treat her well again. If he doesn't change to treat her better, it's on him, not her. And even if it all goes bad, it's not her fault that she didn't leave before, 
\f1\i she
\f0\i0  was doing the noble thing by staying with him and giving him another chance. It was that he didn't take the chance she so graciously gave and change for the better. That's what her model says, right? He was a bum, but did she really have to stay another 6 years in a deadbeat marriage just to say that she did her best?\
What if it is FOMO? If she doesn't wait long enough, what if he 
\f1\i could
\f0\i0  change? What if he could be a good man again, and if she left early, then she would never be able to see it through? Guess what? If she subscribed to the model of staying until he is better, then she does not have to worry about the FOMO. And she gets to come off as charitable! Right, the FOMO pushed her even harder into subscription, and the model she subscribed to also got rid of the FOMO - do you understand? It was just an added benefit.\
Right, this is the sunk cost fallacy. I agree with this one, as it pushes the same point. She does not want to throw away this relationship, this past time together. How could her past decisions to be with him be wrong? Did she not read him correctly? No, surely she did, it's just that he needs more time. Yes. Just another year.\
Either way, the real reason she subscribed to her way of thinking, why the student subscribes to the University, is to defend against change. To protect her 'true self.' It's funny, even after hundreds of years of liberalism and allowing anyone to do anything, we still choose to lock ourselves in cages. Consider Tom, the University student. Tom wakes up in the morning, and goes to class. Tom gets lunch after class, and hangs out with a buddy. Tom goes to his last class of the day, and studies and does tomorrow's homework for a bit. Then Tom gets dinner, and after, Tom might watch Netflix, or play some video games. Then, Tom scrolls on his phone or masturbates before bed. He then sleeps, and lives the same day for a lifetime.\
I'm sure you know Tom. I will call this the infinite work-goon cycle, AKA, the pathway to being a cog. Tom subscribes to this way of living life because he sees it everyone doing it, and social proof says: if everyone is doing something, it's probably ok. So he just does what is ok. He does not venture beyond his classes. He takes just enough credits for his day-to-day to have a productive feeling. He numbs his boredom with quick-shot stimulation, a quick scroll between classes, on the bus ride, or every time his friend has to respond to a message or lose the conversation for longer than 2 seconds. The point is, Tom subscribes to this model because he expects everything will go well, and that he does not have to change. He does not have to think. No one, not even himself, will question him, he's so perfectly average. He trades his agency for comfort, it's easier to make decisions if you walk into a box.\
Why is this cage so awful? Why do most people fall into this shitty cage, this model? It's because models fueled by social proof and feigning ignorance are most commonly adapted to everyone. For everyone to like something, it must have a low bar of entry. Everyone 'likes' Keanu Reeves. Cause he likes dogs. Come on man, everyone likes dogs.\
Guess what? It's all about having a fallback. Let's play the blame game, where the prize is stagnation and the entry ticket is your soul! Why do these people so desperately want to shove the blame elsewhere? It is because they want to be seen as the victim, they don't want to damage their self image. Because it wasn't on them - no, they are perfect - it was someone else hindering them. Oh, he treated me so poorly, but I was so charitable, I gave him another chance in the marriage! Woman, you could've divorced him years prior. But you're scared, aren't you? You're scared people will see you as rash, see you as someone who is immature, someone who would throw away a family life for herself. Someone selfish! No, she couldn't be all that. So without a choice, she is 'charitable.' It's other's views of her FOMO that cause her to stay more than her own FOMO. She says it's for her FOMO because it's understandable for others. Isn't that fascinating?\
For Tom? When his life turns to a deadpan 9-5 while his wife gets orgasms from ChatGPT smut? He'll blame the system. I was fooled! Everyone else was doing the same thing, I got tricked! He will cry, and everyone else who also got 'scammed' will get together in a circle in a mildewy jizz-stained basement and jerk each other off, because it couldn't possibly be their fault they are like this. "Oh, woe, the system has failed us!" Did you read the fine print? Did you read at all? Seriously.\
Can you imagine the student who subscribes to the University model - get a good GPA, good internships = job - and doesn't get a job? He will blame the market. He will blame the University. "It was promised to me!", he will scream into r/thejokerwasright. Everyone blames the job market. "It's just so rough." But if you were good and dedicated enough, you'd get a job. People don't owe you anything if you aren't worth the money. People say this because they don't want the fact that they didn't get a job to be on their own fault. No, it is on the big evil job market instead. It should be handed to me on a silver platter! If the competency required for a job you want goes up, then it is on you to become that competent.\
This is also why the university student is so worried about not getting a summer internship. The model clearly states that, if you get good internships and good grades, then you will get a job. The student understands that, and it's up to them in order to satisfy the model. So if they don't get the internship, don't get the research, then they can't push any future disappointments onto the model being wrong. They didn't satisfy the blueprint, after all. It's on them. People will still find a way to blame it on external things, though: the internship season that year was so hard! The hiring person was so rough! Whatever. The bottom line is, they are stressed if they don't get an internship because then they have to A. Switch models or B. Accept that they did not fulfill the model, and that the blame is on them.\
Everyone thinks they are special. That no matter what, they are good, that their character is consistent and they like it. If a student cheats on a test, you will hear that they were 
\f1\i driven
\f0\i0  to it by the school system. They 
\f1\i had
\f0\i0  to do it, because otherwise, there would be so many consequences, their GPA would tank, they wouldn't get a job! They blame it on the teacher, course, phrase it so that it doesn't say anything about their character. They were obligated to do it to protect their future! Well guess what, you are what you do, not what you think you are.\
Excuses, excuses, excuses. Complaining about things is also a defense of your character. Oh man, my CS teacher is just such a rough grader translates directly to: I'm smart, it's his fault I'm doing poorly. Sometimes there are annoying graders. But no matter how you phrase it, you are defending your fake 'character' with this statement. You could also be trying to bolster your character; "Oh man, this teacher is such a harsh grader." Then when they ask, you say like "Oh I only got like a 94\'85" This is reverse, you want your character to have high standards in terms of grades, and to show that despite the harsh grading you still persevered. One wants to appear smart, one wants to not be seen as dumb.\
Let me tell you a story. There is a guy called James, and James has a friend named Carl. Carl is James's old boss at their auto dealer. James recently moved jobs, to a different dealership. Carl calls James sometimes for coffee, and every time they see each other, Carl just complains infinitely to James. Carl is a real bum, drinks alcohol, cheats on his wife, and tells James about how it's his wife's fault. But James stays, and listens. James hates every minute of it, but he listens.\
James goes home and talks to his wife about it, complaining about Carl and how he hates that he has to hang out with him. His wife says the thing we are all thinking: "Just stop talking to Carl." James is stunned. He quickly retorts with, "Oh, but I wish I could, I owe him a favor and also I want to keep my eye open for any future job positions with him incase this one goes sour." These are fake reasons which he thought of with a term I am coining "ass wipage." Ok maybe we can call it hindsight reasoning, but the terms are synonymous. He is caught with his pants down, she is asking why he doesn't man up and stop talking to him, so he spins up some fake reasons. He could really believe these reasons, too, but they are absolutely not the driving reason. The driving reason is that he wants someone to complain about, someone to act as a shield before the truth that he is upset about himself. He wants to believe that he is upset about himself because he had to spend mental energy on his ex-boss's venting.\
I just wanted to write this to point out things that are bad. But I realize I should close with something good. Models are absolutely useful. You need them to learn, to adapt, to grow. The lesson here is to not get too hung up on your internal idea of yourself. I will share my strategy now, I convince myself to be so cocky and well thought that I think that I am capable of anything. Am I really? Likely not. But I'm sure it's more productive for me to think that I could do anything than if I thought I couldn't do anything, or if I was anxious about it. With one of these mindsets, I will try everything once. With the other, I would do one thing, do it well, and never do anything else out of fear. Don't spend your life building your minifigure.\
}