{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue24;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Everything is actually intentional. I will start with Kpop but this is universal. General pop music has a few themes.\
\
1. Crush/Love\
2. Breakups/Longing\
3. Boss Bitch\
4. Party Party Party party party tonight!!! me and my many different friends will party tonight\
5. Quirky\
\
Let's start with a recent popular genre, kpop. Have you looked into the lyrics they write? There is nothing going on. I am not denying that there are korean pop songs with further lyricism, with thought put into it. I am merely pointing out the large sum of huge groups: Blackpink, Newjeans, etc, which just have lyrics consisting of nothing. Which songs blew up?\
\
Lalisa's MONEY has 1.3 billion plays on Spotify:\
(Italics)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 I came here to drop some money, dropping all my money\cb1 \
\cb3 Drop some money, all this bread so yummy, yeah\cb1 \
\cb3 Twerking, twerking when I buy the things I like\cb1 \
\cb3 Dollar, dollars dropping on my ass tonight\
Everyone silent, listen to my money talk\cb1 \
\cb3 Spend how I like it, yeah, everyone know what I mean, mean\cb1 \
\cb3 When they see green, when they see green, that mean go\cb1 \
\cb3 Gimme what the hell I want, gimme what the hell I want\
\
(End italics)\
\
These songs are very catchy; they have very well made melodies, satisfying chord progressions. There is often a lack of intricacy and a lot of repetition, but that is forgivable since the singers have great voices and the repeated melodies are nice. So why do they choose to fill these great melodies, voices, and potential with 180 BPM and butt ass lyrics?\
\
Why is pop music is so popular? I mean... isn't the pop short for popular? Well, for something to be popular, lots of people have to like it. Everyone likes Keanu Reeves because he likes dogs. No one knows anything about him, but he likes dogs, and he does charity sometimes. People generally agree that charity is good and dogs are good. So they will feel more inclined to like him, because if you say you don't like him, people will think "wait why doesn't he like Keanu Reeves? is he against dogs and charity?" Baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa.\
\
But it's the same for lyrics. You play Travis Scott when you want to be non-offensive, his lyrics mean nothing. But he's a great artist, fantastic beats and music work. He is certainly gifted enough to genuinely spend time with writing rather than wiping his ass, looking at the toilet paper, and going to the studio. But he doesn't, because to get lots of plays, features, etc, his music has to reach as broad an audience as it can. He doesn't have to try. As a general rule, people don't like feeling dumb, so he purposefully sets the bar of listening low. \
\
Kpop, General pop, etc, is made to sell. Most people would prefer to play inoffensive, catchy music. I see the appeal, brainless music can be good for focus or as background music. Listen to what you enjoy to. Even people like Black Eyed Peas, who are incredibly creative with their melodies, switches, have ass cheek lyrics. Gambino's lyrics, while still following the status quo in theme, are creatively done. I wonder if he spoke to management like "PLEASE can I please use my brain in the lyrics too? Will it sell still?"\
\
Many songs are made entirely for a catchy chorus. This chorus is later played on TikTok, and that is what is rewarded. Take Million Dollar Baby for example; the song is a drum beat minus the chorus. I guess you can say the same\
\
Repetition of lyrics and melody is important too, it sticks in your head. Have you heard a song recently which doesn't have the intro - buildup - chorus - midsection - buildup - chorus - second chorus - end? Music has followed a format, it doesn't have to. Exploding kittens, cards against humanity, Uno. Widely popular, very low bar of entry.\
\
"Quit pointing out the obvious!" I'm getting there, little Chumbuk. Music has become an identity piece. Kendrick Lamar's lyrics are viewed as higher, better made. So people who listen to him might be seen as having higher reading comprehension, wordplay knowledge, musical knowledge. People want to have positive traits associated with them, so they might say they listen to Kendrick if you ask. Playing it safe, again?\
\
It's the same for classical, it gives off a more refined look. KPop, gives off a brainlet/trend follower vibe (which is positive in some communities which lean into it). Or, if you're Korean, it might imply that you're cultured, that you're seeing something in KPop that other KPop listeners are too ignorant to see. Either way, music has changed into a signaling thing rather than something people enjoy. I wonder what people would listen to if no one could talk about music to each other. Isn't it interesting, you care more about what they think about what you listen to than what you listen to? Would you rather be nothing, if you could stay nothing forever?}