{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You've seen hunger games, I'm sure. I will not do the easy critique that Katniss literally never does anything, but I will formalize another thought I had. I lied that I would not do the critique, I can't resist.\
\
When Katniss volunteers for her sister, everyone was touched, or at least thought it was heroic. I know every person watching with a younger sibling probably felt 'seen' or something - if they were ever put in that situation, they would do it too. If there was an only child watching, they probably thought "ah, if I had a younger sibling, I would do that too." And while the older sibling is holding their hand with their younger sibling, teary eyed, saying "I would do that for you too," the younger sibling is thinking "if I had a younger sibling I would do it for them too."\
\
Why? Well, why would you want to relate to anyone else? Primrose Everdeen is nothing but unlucky, Katniss, the main character, is portrayed as a hero. Of course you would rather have what the main character does say things about your image of yourself... you're a good person - if you're an only child, you're a good person, so you'd be a good sibling, so you'd volunteer too. It makes you feel better because it is implied that if you don't volunteer, you are not a hero (the hero volunteered!), and since you *would have volunteered in that world,* you are a hero! Gold star for doing nothing!\
\
What's important to realize is that we will never be put in this scenario, where we have to give our lives for something else. In a relationship, if a person says they would die for you, it's more of an act of sentimentality. Maybe they *would* die for you, but there will near never be a situation where the only possible way for your significant other would be to end your own life. Also, when this is said, it usually is said to garner "no, no don't die for me! I would want you to keep living" and "I would die for you too, though..." it's all very sweet and self centered.\
\
And this is most of television. People project the main character's traits onto themselves, because people intrinsically believe they are special and that they are the main character. Characters are written in ways that you can relate to, so that you can feel better about yourself. Just pick a disaster movie... any of them. They are thrust into a crazy situation, and what is the viewer to do? The viewer is to empathize - share the feelings of another - and criticize. "Oh my personally, if I was there? I'd do x, and y, and z which is better than what they did..." yea, keep daydreaming. Give me a call when the next Sharknado hits Manhattan.\
\
This also brings in my critique on anime, particularly genres where it's a total bum who doesn't do anything and suddenly he teleports into a world where he gets everything he ever wanted immediately and has special powers, again for doing nothing. The viewer sees themself in the bum, and gets to daydream about them getting teleported into random worlds for doing nothing. It's even more jarring when you realize you get to jerk two things off at once... people who grind video games and are high stats in them can then fantasize they may be transported into that world and that they can use those things they earned in those games 'as the player.'\
\
This teaches the viewer something bad; that they can do nothing and then suddenly, all at once, something cool will happen. And so subconsciously, people bank on this to happen, but gee whiz buddy there is no such thing as free lunch. \
\
Movies with female leads tend to share a topic too. I just watched mean girls last night, I enjoyed it. This was a movie made in 2004. It follows the life of Cady Heron, who is a bright 16 year old girl who has been homeschooled in Africa for the past 16 years of her life, but now she is introduced to school. She is well thought, kind, and just a standard sweet girl with lots of 'different history (she grew up in Africa).' Then, the popular mean girls recruit her, and she finds herself betraying her friends and becoming a mean girl. People dislike her because is mean, and she loses friends. She realizes it is bad to do that, so then she goes back to find her 'true self' again... and then everyone likes her when she is back to her nerdy, sweet, true self.\
\
Now, let me tell you about KPOP Demon hunters, another movie which has been released recently. It features female lead, Rumi, who is upset about her self. See, she is in a clique of demon hunters, but she has marks of a demon... *gasp!* So, she hides this part of her to her very real two friends who only traits are one being anxious and the other being too uncaring (wow, subtle, I wonder what the movie wants to push her to become). She tries to hide it, and then her friends figure it out (and push her away), and she is so unhappy with her 'true self' that she runs off and tries to kill herself (not really, she asks her godmother to kill her, so really she just did nothing). But then after, she accepts her true self as half demon and everyone is happy and she gets the power up to defeat the big bad demons.\
\
One more movie; it'll be quick. We're back to hunger games. Katniss Everdeen does absolutely nothing - her costume designer picks her clothes, two men are pining for her the whole time when they know the other exists, when there is trouble magic parachutes or a killer wasp nest appears by her side... everything is presented to her on a silver platter. You then ask, why? Why does she get all of these things? Ah, it's because she's a strong, independent, brave, fierce, pretty woman. \
\
"I can relate to Katniss..." "I can relate to Cady..." "I can relate to Rumi...", yes, and so what consensus do you make? "The only thing holding me back from being such a cool main charavter is circumstance." And by circumstance I mean luck, and things you cannot control (like not being homeschooled for 16 years, not being born half demon, not being born in that world). Notice how it's always born? Innate? Guess what, dear viewer, if you were just *born* like that, you could be just like the cool people! It's not your fault, no, the reason you're not cool is not your fault... except it totally is.\
\
I want you to notice something... all of these stories tell the same story. They sell the same point - the self is the single most valuable thing, ever. Remember Cinderella (or any princess story)? It's the same story too, she does absolutely nothing and the prince loves her and does so much for her. What does this teach girls? The movie says that you can do absolutely nothing and get so much, so why? The only answer is that the movies and tropes elevate the woman's self innate worth so high, that they are just valuable without doing anything. And if they are bad, it is just because they strayed from their 'true', innate self.\
\
Why do you think the movies with finding your true self are so popular? No one wants to think that they are bad, they want to think that they are a good person doing bad things. That can't happen! If you say you are a good person, but you do bad things, you are not a good person, you are chaos. So people would like to believe that they are intrinsically good, they turned bad by something else, but they have to accept it and work through it to find them selves again. \
\
THERE IS NO SELF TO FIND, JUST ONE TO BUILD. STOP STARING INTO THE VOID OF WHAT-IFS AND FIGURE JUST ONE OUT.\
\
Nothing changes, but you feel better about yourself(the state of yourself). It's very masturbatory.  Why did Narcissus stare into the pool for the rest of his life again?}